SQL: Implement DATE_PARSE function for parsing strings into DATE values (#57391)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/sql/functions/date-time.asciidoc

include-tagged::{sql-specs}/docs/docs.csv-spec[dateDiffDateMinutes]
--------------------------------------------------

[[sql-functions-datetime-dateparse]]
==== `DATE_PARSE`

.Synopsis:
[source, sql]
--------------------------------------------------
DATE_PARSE(
    string_exp, <1>
    string_exp) <2>
--------------------------------------------------

*Input*:

<1> date expression as a string
<2> parsing pattern

*Output*: date

*Description*: Returns a date by parsing the 1st argument using the format specified in the 2nd argument. The parsing
format pattern used is the one from
https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/14/docs/api/java.base/java/time/format/DateTimeFormatter.html[`java.time.format.DateTimeFormatter`].
If any of the two arguments is `null` or an empty string `null` is returned.

[NOTE]

> If the parsing pattern not contains date units completely (e.g. 'HH:mm:ss', 'dd-MM HH:mm:ss', etc.) an error is returned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the parsing pattern does not contain all valid date units (e.g. 'HH:mm:ss', 'dd-MM HH:mm:ss', etc.) an error is returned
```

include-tagged::{sql-specs}/docs/docs.csv-spec[dateDiffDateMinutes]
--------------------------------------------------

[[sql-functions-datetime-dateparse]]
==== `DATE_PARSE`

.Synopsis:
[source, sql]
--------------------------------------------------
DATE_PARSE(
    string_exp, <1>
    string_exp) <2>
--------------------------------------------------

*Input*:

<1> date expression as a string
<2> parsing pattern

*Output*: date

*Description*: Returns a date by parsing the 1st argument using the format specified in the 2nd argument. The parsing
format pattern used is the one from
https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/14/docs/api/java.base/java/time/format/DateTimeFormatter.html[`java.time.format.DateTimeFormatter`].

> If any of the two arguments is `null` or an empty string `null` is returned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If any of the two arguments is `null` or an empty string, then `null` is returned.
```
